Fortrabbit CLI (Un-official)
============================

Still under development - Do not use just yet!

A CLI tool to automate git deployments and builds with fortrabbit. Built to work with most PHP applications (Laravel, Symfony, Wordpress, etc.). Currently only tested with the "Universal Stack" on Fortrabbit.

## Usage

#### Installation

```bash
# NB - do not use yet - not on packagist!
composer global require tlr/frb-cli@1.*
```

#### Project Setup

Then, at your project root, you can run `frb init staging production` to set up the `.deploy` folder, and put in some sample config files for staging and production - you can change the names of your different deployment environments.

Edit the config file(s) with your fortrabbit app name, and other details (see config section below for explanation of options)

#### Deploy!

For the first time running a git deploy with fortrabbit, you will need to run:

```bash
frb deploy:first production
```

And from then on, you can run:

```bash
frb deploy production
```

## Config File

Config files can be created when you first bootstrap your project - `frb init staging production` will create staging and production config files.

Alternatively, you can use the `frb make:env` command to add a sample file to your config directory.

The sample config file looks like this:

```yaml
name               : project_name
frb_zone           : deploy.eu2.frbit.com
target_branch      : origin/master
remote_branch      : master

build_commands :
  - make
  - run

build_directories :
  - public/build

build_files :
  - public/build.json
```

#### name

This is the app name in fortrabbit.

#### frb_zone

This is the deploy location of the app. You can get this from the second half of the git address (ie. my\_app@**deploy.eu2.frbit.com**:my\_app.git)

#### target_branch

The local name of the branch you want to deploy from. `origin/master` is the default, as that will mean that it will only deploy code that has been accepted into the master branch of the remote `origin` repository on GitHub (or wherever your main repository is - GitLab, BitBucket, etc.)

For example, if you use a forking model, then this may be `upstream/master`. Or `upstream/develop` for a staging site.

#### remote_branch

In most circumstances, this should not be changed. Fortrabbit uses the master branch on its remote repository. If you know what you're doing and you change that for whatever reason, you can change it here. In 99% of cases though, we do not recommend changing the default deploy branch.

#### build_commands

A list of build commands to be run locally to generate the site's assets. For example, 

```bash
build_commands :
  - yarn
  - yarn run production
```

#### build_directories

A list of directories that have been generated by the build commands. These will be scp'd up to the server. For example:

```bash
build_directories :
  - public/\_css
  - public/\_js
  - public/\_fonts
```

#### build_files

A list of files that have been generated by the build commands. These will be scp'd up to the server. For example:

```bash
build_files :
  - public/manifest.json
```

## Commands

#### frb init [...environment1, environment2, etc.]

Sets up the `.deploy` directory with an appropriate git ignore file (for ignoring logs and other files that you don't want to commit)

Accepts any number of space separated environment names, and will create a sample environment file for each.

#### frb make:env [new-environment-name]

Creates a sample environment file in the .deploy directory.

#### frb ssh [environment]

SSH's you into the server for the given environment.

#### frb deploy [environment]

Runs a full deploy to the given environment.

#### frb deploy:first [environment]

Runs an initial deploy to the given environment. Must be run before `frb deploy` will work.

#### frb deploy:touch [environment]

Runs a code-only deploy to the given environment. Will not build or push any assets.

#### frb deploy:assets [environment] [--scp-only] [--build-only]

Runs an assets-only deploy - building and pushing assets to the remote server.

#### frb remote:reset [environment]

Runs a reset command on the remote server. Warning - this is a destructive command!





## To Do

- [ ] Add remote command hooks (maintanence mode during deploy?)
- [ ] Detect remote server status and run :first if it needs it...!
- [x] Detect (isFile()) the build-push targets and run the directory / file task for whichever type it is 
- [ ] Add confirmation to the reset command
- [x] E add remote:run command for running single commands
- [ ] Add proper output logging
- [ ] Nicer error handling
- [ ] Git check on valid branch at start as well as clear stage
- [ ] E get secrets from FRB command
- [ ] E DB Backup command?
- [ ] Download / backup existing build directories to .deploy/tmp, then repush them on fail
- [x] N init             : Bootstrap a project's .deploy folder
- [x] N make:env         : Create an environment file
- [x] E ssh              : SSH into the server
- [x] E deploy           : Deploys to environment
- [x] E deploy:first     : Run the first deploy
- [x] E deploy:touch     : Deploys without uploading any assets
- [x] E deploy:assets    : Push assets only (--scp-only --build-only)
- [x] E remote:reset     : Reset the remote FRB instance
